Data and instructions were once
stored on external punched cards,
which were kept in order and
arranged in program decks.
Wired control panel for an IBM 402
Accounting Machine. Wires connect
pulse streams from the card reader
to counters and other internal logic
and ultimately to the printer.In the 1880s , Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data
in machine-readable form.[9] Later a control panel (plug board)
added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for
different jobs, and by the late 1940s , unit record equipment such as
the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in
a similar way, as were the first electronic computers. However, with
the concept of the stored-program computer introduc ed in 1949,
both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same
way in computer memory.[10]
Machine code was the langua ge of early programs, written in the
instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Assembly langua ges were soon developed that let the programmer
specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with
abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for
specifying addresses. However, because an assembly langua ge is
little more than a different notation for a machine langua ge, two machines with different instruction sets also
have different assembly langua ges.
High-level langua ges made the process of developing a program
simpler and more unde rstandable, and less bound to the unde rlying
hardware. The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was
developed in 1952[11] by Grace Hoppe r, who also coined the term
'compiler'.[12][13] FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level
langua ge to have a functional implementation, came out in
1957,[14] and many other langua ges were soon developed—in
particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp
for computer research.
These compiled langua ges allow the programmer to write programs
in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of
abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine
instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics. Compilers harnessed the power of computers to
make programming easier[14] by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using
infix not ation.Machine language
Compiler languages
Source code entry

This document contains information generated using a language model (Azure OpenAI). The information 
contained in this document is only for demonstration purposes and does not reflect the opinions or 
beliefs of Microsoft. Microsoft makes no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, 
about the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect to the information 
contained in this document. 
All rights reserved to Microsoft

