Programs were mostly entered using punc hed cards or paper tape. By the late 1960s , data storage devices
and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into
the computers. Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much
more easily than with punc hed cards.
Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some funda mental
properties. The following pr operties are among t he most important:[15] [16]
Reliability: how often the results of a program are correct. This depends on conceptual
correctness of algorithms and minimization of programming mistakes, such as mistakes in
resource management (e.g., buffer overflows and race conditions) and logic errors (such as
division by zero or off-by-one errors).
Robustness: how well a program anticipates problems due to errors (not bugs). This
includes situations such as incorrect, inappropriate or corrupt data, unavailability of needed
resources such as memory, operating system services, and network connections, user error,
and unexpected power outages.
Usability: the ergonomics of a program: the ease with which a person can use the program
for its intended purpose or in some cases even unanticipated purposes. Such issues can
make or break its success even regardless of other issues. This involves a wide range of
textual, graphical, and sometimes hardware elements that improve the clarity, intuitiveness,
cohesiveness, and completeness of a program's user interface.
Portability: the range of computer hardware and operating system platforms on which the
source code of a program can be compiled/interpreted and run. This depends on differences
in the programming facilities provided by the different platforms, including hardware and
operating system resources, expected behavior of the hardware and operating system, and
availability of platform-specific compilers (and sometimes libraries) for the language of the
source code.
Maintainability: the ease with which a program can be modified by its present or future
developers in order to make improvements or to customize, fix bugs and security holes, or
adapt it to new environments. Good practices[17] during initial development make the
difference in this regard. This quality may not be directly apparent to the end user but it can
significantly affect the fate of a program over the long term.
Efficiency/performance: Measure of system resources a program consumes (processor time,
memory space, slow devices such as disks, network bandwidth and to some extent even
user interaction): the less, the better. This also includes careful management of resources, for
example cleaning up temporary files and eliminating memory leaks. This is often discussed
under the shadow of a chosen programming language. Although the language certainly
affects performance, even slower languages, such as Python, can execute programs
instantly from a human perspective. Speed, resource usage, and performance are important
for programs that bottleneck the system, but efficient use of programmer time is also
important and is related to cost: more hardware may be cheaper.Modern programming
Quality requirements
Readability of source code

offers a wider range of prescription drug coverage than Northwind Standard. Both plans offer coverage 
for vision and dental services, as well as medical services.  
Cost Comparison
Contoso Electronics deducts the employee's portion of the healthcare cost from each paycheck . This 
means that the cost of the health insurance will be spread out over the course of the year, rather 
than being paid in one lump sum. The employee's portion of the cost will be calculated based on the 
selected health plan and the number of people covered by the insurance. The table below shows a 
cost comparison between the different health plans offered by Contoso Electronics:
Next Steps 
We hope that this information has been helpful in understanding the differences between Northwind 
Health Plus and Northwind Standard. We 
are confident that you will find the right plan for you and 
your family. Thank you for choosing Contoso Electronics!  


